"I think human consciousness is a tragic misstep in human evolution. We became too self aware; nature created an aspect of nature separate from itself. We are creatures that should not exist by natural law. We are things that labor under the illusion of having a self, a secretion of sensory experience and feeling, programmed with total assurance that we are each somebody, when in fact everybody's nobody. I think the honorable thing for our species to do is deny our programming, stop reproducing, walk hand in hand into extinction, one last midnight, brothers and sisters opting out of a raw deal."
"I tell myself I bear witness. But the real answer is that it's obviously my programming. And I lack the constitution for suicide."
"I contemplate the moment in the garden; the idea of allowing your own crucifixion."
"This place is like somebody's memory of a town and the memory's fading. It's like there was never anything here but jungle."
"It's all one ghetto, man. Giant gutter in outer space."
"I don't sleep, I just dream."
"Given how long its taken for me to reconcile my nature, I can't figure I'd forgo it on your account, Marty."
"I know who I am. And after all these years, there's a victory in that."
"Think of the hubris it must take to yank a soul out of nonexistence into this... meat, to force a life into this... thresher. That's... so my daughter, she spared me the sin of being a father."
"Sometimes I think I'm just not good for people, that it's not good for them to be around me. I wear 'em down. They... they get unhappy."
"Back then, not sleepin', I lay awake thinkin' about women, my daughter, my wife... I mean, it's like somethin's got your name on it, like a bullet or a nail in the road..."
"To finally know that you didn't have to hold on so tight. To realize that all your life - you know, all your love, all your hate, all your memories, all your pain - it was all the same thing. It was all the same dream, a dream that you had inside a locked room, a dream about being a person. And like a lot of dreams, there's a monster at the end of it."
"Transference of fear and self-loathing to an authoritarian vessel. It's catharsis. He absorbs their dread with his narrative. Because of this, he's effective at proportion to the amount of certainty he can project. Certain linguistic anthropologists think that religion is a language virus that rewrites pathways in the brain. Dulls critical thinking."
"The world needs bad men. We keep the other bad men from the door."
"If the only thing keeping a person decent is the expectation of divine reward, then brother that person is a piece of shit, and I'd like to get as many of them out in the open as possible."
"The ontological fallacy of expecting a light at the end of the tunnel, well, that's what the preacher sells, same as a shrink. See, the preacher, he encourages your capacity for illusion. Then he tells you it's a fucking virtue. Always a buck to be had doing that, and it's such a desperate sense of entitlement, isn't it?"
"People incapable of guilt usually do have a good time."
"What's it say about life, hm? You gotta get together, tell yourself stories that violate every law of the universe just to get through the goddamn day. Nah. What's that say about your reality, Marty?"
"People... I have seen the finale of thousands of lives, man. Young, old, each one so sure of their realness. You know that their sensory experience constituted a unique individual with purpose and meaning. So certain that they were more than biological puppet. The truth wills out, and everybody sees. Once the strings are cut, all fall down."
"So, enough with the self-improvement-penance-hand-wringing shit. Let's go to work."
"Someone once told me, 'Time is a flat circle.' Everything we've ever done or will do, we're gonna do over and over and over again. And that little boy and that little girl, they're gonna be in that room again and again and again forever."
"In eternity, where there is no time, nothing can grow. Nothing can become. Nothing changes. So death created time to grow the things that it would kill... and you are reborn but into the same life that you've always been born into. I mean, how many times have we had this conversation, detectives? Well, who knows? When you can't remember your lives, you can't change your lives, and that is the terrible and secret fate of all life. You're trapped, like a nightmare you keep waking up into."
"It's like in this universe we process time linearly forward. But outside of our space time from what would be a fourth dimensional perspective time wouldn't exist. And from that vantage could we attain it? We see our space time would look flattened. Like a single sculpture of matter and super-position of every place it ever occupied. Our sentience is just cycling through our lives like carts on a track. See everything outside our dimension that's eternity. Eternity looking down on us. Now to us its a sphere but to them its a circle."
"There is no such thing as forgiveness. People just have short memories."
"You know, people that give me advice, I reckon they're talking to themselves."
"You see, sometimes people... mistake a child as an answer for something, you know, like a way to change their story."
"Life's barely long enough to get good at one thing. So be careful what you get good at."
"A man remembers his debts."
"Look, as sentient meat, however illusory our identities are, we craft those identities by making value judgements: everybody judges, all the time. Now, you got a problem with that... You're livin' wrong."
"There was a moment, I know, when I was under in the dark, that something… whatever I'd been reduced to, not even consciousness, just a vague awareness in the dark. I could feel my definitions fading. And beneath that darkness there was another kind—it was deeper—warm, like a substance. I could feel man, I knew, I knew my daughter waited for me, there. So clear. I could feel her. I could feel …"
"... I could feel the peace of my Pop, too. It was like I was part of everything that I have ever loved, and we were all, the three of us, just fading out. And all I had to do was let go, man. And I did. I said, 'Darkness, yeah.' and I disappeared. But I could still feel her love there. Even more than before. Nothing. Nothing but that love. And then I woke up."
"There was a moment... I know when I was under in the dark that something... whatever I'd been reduced to, you know, not even consciousness. It was a vague awareness in the dark, and I could... I could feel my definitions fading... And beneath that... darkness, there was another kind. It was - it was deeper, warm, you know, like a substance. I could feel, man, and I knew, I knew my daughter waited for me there... So clear. I could feel her."
"Well, once there was only dark. You ask me, the light's winning."
